README.md, before:

# The Charity Scrape Project 

## Introduction 
### TL:DR
Goal of project was to perform a web scrape of all organisations found on the gov.uk charity register ([GOV.uk Charity Register](https://www.gov.uk/find-charity-information)). Then to filter to charities I wish to contact. Finally, send an automated email out to them based on the selected charities. 

### Long Story Version
As part of my wish (at the time) to work for good causes, I was initially looking to utilise my skills in Data Analytics, Science, Engineering and Machine Learning for them. However, I wanted to use these skills on a consultancy basis for charities and non-profits that I believed were doing the right thing; in other words to "help people, who help people".  

As part of this goal I wanted to understand how i could acquire the relevant details of these organisations for me to approach and see if they needed any assistance with their data needs.

The reason for wanting to get into this potential business venture, was due my previous experience dealing with some consultancies, where have targeted charity organisations that get little support in this area, and charge unfairly for their services. Not only this, but also tend to attempt to inaugurate themselves into the organisations structure, which in my head poses two problems:

1. Charging high fees (up to £2,000 per day for a senior consultant - based on my exposure), that takes much money away from the charity's intended cause.
2. Provide the most basic service for such high fees, providing little training or support in any new practice they provision.
3. With such provisions, place them in a position, where the charity cannot function in the same way without them going forward, becoming dependant on the consultancy.

These things above I wanted to change entirely:
- Charge fairly, enough to ensure my needs are met (bills have to paid still!) but at a fraction of the price above, saving at least 60% or more in comparison.
- Tailor to what they need, based on real situations that affect them day to day, to save money , time and stress in the long run.
- Help those we work with learn and improve the ways of working with the use of data.
- Up-skill and learn from one another on what is best both short and long term.
- Allow the Charity to be self sustaining once the work is done, so there is no need to depend on someone like me in future! More, they have the option to collaborate in future (if I did a good job!).

Anyway, one of the first steps I could take, was to understand how many charities are out there in the UK. Additionally, understand which charities I could approach with this idea, before going any further.

Therefore - and the reason for this project - my initial goal was to produce a simple web-scrape of all the charities in the UK, that were registered on the gov.uk charity register:

[GOV.uk Charity Register](https://www.gov.uk/find-charity-information)

Once scraped and filtered, to then send an email to the contact details provided on the register, with my details and explain my idea.

## Tools / Pre-requisites
In order to replicate the work conducted here, the following items/ libraries/ tools etc were used:
### IDE 
[Visual studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the following extensions:
- python
- pylance
- jupyter

### Python
Including Python 3, the following libraries were used throughout the whole process:
| Library Name | What it does |
| ------------ | ------------ |
| Selenium | something |
| BeautifulSoup | To Parse Through Web/HTML elements |
| tqdm | To Show loop iteration progress |
| requests | To perform HTTP calls over the internet |
| lxml | Advanced parsing of HTML/XML |
| re | Regex operations |
| plotly | To display interactive Data visualisations |
| datetime | for datetime operations |

## Steps Taken 
## Reflection

Commit message:

updated code to register scrape and additional notes on readme file

README.md, after:

# The Charity Scrape Project 

## Introduction 
### TL:DR
Goal of project was to perform a web scrape of all organisations found on the gov.uk charity register ([GOV.uk Charity Register](https://www.gov.uk/find-charity-information)). Then to filter to charities I wish to contact. Finally, send an automated email out to them based on the selected charities. 

### Long Story Version
As part of my wish (at the time) to work for good causes, I was initially looking to utilise my skills in Data Analytics, Science, Engineering and Machine Learning for them. However, I wanted to use these skills on a consultancy basis for charities and non-profits that I believed were doing the right thing; in other words to "help people, who help people".  

As part of this goal I wanted to understand how i could acquire the relevant details of these organisations for me to approach and see if they needed any assistance with their data needs.

The reason for wanting to get into this potential business venture, was due my previous experience dealing with some consultancies, where have targeted charity organisations that get little support in this area, and charge unfairly for their services. Not only this, but also tend to attempt to inaugurate themselves into the organisations structure, which in my head poses two problems:

1. Charging high fees (up to £2,000 per day for a senior consultant - based on my exposure), that takes much money away from the charity's intended cause.
2. Provide the most basic service for such high fees, providing little training or support in any new practice they provision.
3. With such provisions, place them in a position, where the charity cannot function in the same way without them going forward, becoming dependant on the consultancy.

These things above I wanted to change entirely:
- Charge fairly, enough to ensure my needs are met (bills have to paid still!) but at a fraction of the price above, saving at least 60% or more in comparison.
- Tailor to what they need, based on real situations that affect them day to day, to save money , time and stress in the long run.
- Help those we work with learn and improve the ways of working with the use of data.
- Up-skill and learn from one another on what is best both short and long term.
- Allow the Charity to be self sustaining once the work is done, so there is no need to depend on someone like me in future! More, they have the option to collaborate in future (if I did a good job!).

Anyway, one of the first steps I could take, was to understand how many charities are out there in the UK. Additionally, understand which charities I could approach with this idea, before going any further.

Therefore - and the reason for this project - my initial goal was to produce a simple web-scrape of all the charities in the UK, that were registered on the gov.uk charity register:

[GOV.uk Charity Register](https://www.gov.uk/find-charity-information)

Once scraped and filtered, to then send an email to the contact details provided on the register, with my details and explain my idea.

## Tools / Pre-requisites
In order to replicate the work conducted here, the following items/ libraries/ tools etc were used:
### IDE 
[Visual studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the following extensions:
- python
- pylance
- jupyter

### Python
Including Python 3, the following libraries were used throughout the whole process:
| Library Name | What it does |
| ------------ | ------------ |
| Selenium | Automation of web browser steps |
| BeautifulSoup | To Parse Through Web/HTML elements |
| tqdm | To Show loop iteration progress |
| requests | To perform HTTP calls over the internet |
| lxml | Advanced parsing of HTML/XML |
| re | Regex operations |
| plotly | To display interactive Data visualisations |
| datetime | Datetime operations |

## Steps Taken 
Steps involved so far are relatively straightforward, but some steps can take a little while. So, I attempted to section the code in the notebook 'charity_registerscrape.ipynb' to accommodate for this.

To proceed further, the following notebooks are done and ran (in order) from data scrape to sending an email out to selected Charities:

### Charity Register Web Scrape
[Link to notebook](https://github.com/lou-i0/Charity-Scrape/blob/main/charity_registerscrape.ipynb)

## Reflection
